Internet as a source of information and social network empowers patients, changes patient-physician relations, their health related choices and decisions, and patterns of accessing health services. Empowerment is viewed as a process of activating patients, who as a result of rejecting the passivity of sick role behavior and assuming responsibility for their care by involving their treatment decisions. However as empowerment is focused on how to help patients to become more knowledgeable and take control on their own health, there are many debates on the actual outcomes of it.  It is argued that empowerment and control are not the same things; there are many factors that might affect decision-making capacity of patients, such as need for security, self-determination, and a continuous sense of self. Even though patient empowerment can be perceived as desirable, it can also be constraining. Patient might experience more scepticism, anxiety, fear, and in some case empowerment might be an indicator that the patient is avoiding awareness of the impact of illness on his/her life.
Big data science provides us valuable tools to analyses actual patients’ experience on twitter data. Also there are many ways or patterns that patients obtain and use information.  Those patterns might vary by type of sources; reliability of the exposed information; or by patients reactions.  In our research, we aim to investigate whether if different patterns of patient empowerment lead to different emotional modes; and if it is, identify what type of information or interaction patterns are related to the each mode.
We will query tweeter data for selected keywords for breast cancer. Query results (hashtags) would be analysed according to a set of criteria including number of followers, or re-tweets. Top 50 hashtags will be selected. Selected hashtags would be classified by domain experts according to a set of criteria including type of information source, reliability of content, so on. Each class would be representing different patterns of patient empowerment patterns. Next, followers of each class will be identified and their tweets will be analysed to discover sentiments and emotional moods. Finally, a statically analyses would be conducted to observe if there is a meaningful difference between the emotional moods among classes.
As study domain breast is selected. Cancer patients have to deal with psychological factors such as fear, stress and anxiety. There are several coping mechanisms to deal with cancer, which either negatively or positively have a psychosocial impact of prognosis of disease, as well as influencing decision making process of patient and personal control level. 
